README.md, before:

# Basic Nested Forms

## Objectives

1.  Construct a nested `params` hash with data about the primary object and a
    `belongs_to` and `has_many` association.
2.  Use the conventional key names for associated data (association_attributes).
3.  Name form inputs correctly to create a nested `params` hash with `belongs_to`
    and `has_many` associated data.
4.  Define a conventional association writer for the primary model to properly
    instantiate associations based on the nested `params` association data.
5.  Define a custom association writer for the primary model to properly instantiate
    associations with custom logic (like unique by name) on the nested `params`
    association data.
6.  Use `fields_for` to generate the association fields.

## Data model

Let's say we're writing an address book.

Each `Person` can have multiple addresses. Each `Address` has a bunch of address
info fields.

Our data model looks like this:

- `Person`
  - has many `addresses`
  - has a `name` (string)
- `Address`
  - has one `person`
  - has the first line of the street address stored as `street_address_1` (string)
  - has the second line of the street address stored as `street_address_2` (string)
  - has a `city` (string)
  - has a `state` (string)
  - has a `zipcode` (string)
  - has an `address_type` (string)

## Creating people

How do we write our `Person` form? We don't want to require our user to first
create an `Address`, then create that `Person`. That's annoying. We want a
single form for a `Person` containing several slots for their `addresses`.

Previously, we wrote setters like `Song#artist_name=` to find or create an
`Artist` and connect them to the song.

That won't work here, because an address contains more than one field. In the
`Artist` case we were just doing the `name`. With `Address`, it's "structured
data". All that really means is it has multiple fields attached to it. When we
build a form for it, the form will send a different key for each field in each
address. This can get a bit unwieldy so we generally try to group a hash within
the `params` hash, which makes things much neater. Spoiler alert: Rails has a
way to send this across as a hash.

The complete `params` object for creating a `Person` will look like the
following. Using "0" and "1" as keys can seem a bit odd, but it makes everything
else work moving forward. This hash is now more versatile. You can access nested
values the standard way, with `params[:person][:addresses_attributes]["0"]`
returning all of the information about the first address at 33 West 26th St.

```ruby
{
  :person => {
    :name => "Avi",
    :addresses_attributes => {
      "0" => {
        :street_address_1 => "33 West 26th St",
        :street_address_2 => "Apt 2B",
        :city => "New York",
        :state => "NY",
        :zipcode => "10010",
        :address_type => "Work"
      },
      "1" => {
        :street_address_1 => "11 Broadway",
        :street_address_2 => "2nd Floor",
        :city => "New York",
        :state => "NY",
        :zipcode => "10004",
        :address_type => "Home"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Notice the `addresses_attributes` key. That key is similar to the `artist_name`
key we used previously. Last time, we handled this by writing a `artist_name=`
method. In this case, we're going to do something _super_ similar. Instead of
writing our own `addresses_attributes=` method, we'll let Rails take care of it
for us. We're going to use `accepts_nested_attributes_for` and the `fields_for`
FormHelper.

Last time, we first wrote our setter method in the model. This time let's modify
our `Person` model to include an `accepts_nested_attributes_for :addresses`
line.

```ruby
class Person < ActiveRecord::Base
  has_many :addresses
  accepts_nested_attributes_for :addresses

end
```

Now open up `rails c` and run our `addresses_attributes` method that was created for us by `accepts_nested_attributes_for`.

```shell
2.2.3 :018 > new_person = Person.new
 => #<Person id: nil, name: nil, created_at: nil, updated_at: nil>

2.2.3 :019 > new_person.addresses_attributes={"0"=>{"street_address_1"=>"33 West 26", "street_address_2"=>"Floor 2", "city"=>"NYC", "state"=>"NY", "zipcode"=>"10004", "address_type"=>"work1"}, "1"=>{"street_address_1"=>"11 Broadway", "street_address_2"=>"Suite 260", "city"=>"NYC", "state"=>"NY", "zipcode"=>"10004", "address_type"=>"work2"}}
 => {"0"=>{"street_address_1"=>"33 West 26", "street_address_2"=>"Floor 2", "city"=>"NYC", "state"=>"NY", "zipcode"=>"10004", "address_type"=>"work1"}, "1"=>{"street_address_1"=>"11 Broadway", "street_address_2"=>"Suite 260", "city"=>"NYC", "state"=>"NY", "zipcode"=>"10004", "address_type"=>"work2"}}

2.2.3 :020 > new_person.save
   (0.2ms)  begin transaction
  SQL (0.8ms)  INSERT INTO "people" ("created_at", "updated_at") VALUES (?, ?)  [["created_at", "2016-01-14 11:57:00.393038"], ["updated_at", "2016-01-14 11:57:00.393038"]]
  SQL (0.3ms)  INSERT INTO "addresses" ("street_address_1", "street_address_2", "city", "state", "zipcode", "address_type", "person_id", "created_at", "updated_at") VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?)  [["street_address_1", "33 West 26"], ["street_address_2", "Floor 2"], ["city", "NYC"], ["state", "NY"], ["zipcode", "10004"], ["address_type", "work1"], ["person_id", 3], ["created_at", "2016-01-14 11:57:00.403152"], ["updated_at", "2016-01-14 11:57:00.403152"]]
  SQL (0.1ms)  INSERT INTO "addresses" ("street_address_1", "street_address_2", "city", "state", "zipcode", "address_type", "person_id", "created_at", "updated_at") VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?)  [["street_address_1", "11 Broadway"], ["street_address_2", "Suite 260"], ["city", "NYC"], ["state", "NY"], ["zipcode", "10004"], ["address_type", "work2"], ["person_id", 3], ["created_at", "2016-01-14 11:57:00.405973"], ["updated_at", "2016-01-14 11:57:00.405973"]]
   (0.6ms)  commit transaction
 => true
```

This is a bit hard to read, but you'll notice that we have a method called
`addresses_attributes=`. You didn't write that; `accepts_nested_attributes_for`
wrote that. Then when we called `new_person.save` it created both the `Person`
object and the two `Address` objects. Boom!

Now, we just need to get our form to create a `params` hash like that. Easy
Peasy. We are going to use `fields_for` to make this happen.

```erb
# app/views/people/new.html.erb

<%= form_for @person do |f| %>
  <%= f.label :name %>
  <%= f.text_field :name %><br>

  <%= f.fields_for :addresses do |addr| %>
    <%= addr.label :street_address_1 %>
    <%= addr.text_field :street_address_1 %><br>

    <%= addr.label :street_address_2 %>
    <%= addr.text_field :street_address_2 %><br>

    <%= addr.label :city %>
    <%= addr.text_field :city %><br>

    <%= addr.label :state %>
    <%= addr.text_field :state %><br>

    <%= addr.label :zipcode %>
    <%= addr.text_field :zipcode %><br>

    <%= addr.label :address_type %>
    <%= addr.text_field :address_type %><br>
  <% end %>

  <%= f.submit %>
<% end %>
```

The `fields_for` line gives something nice and English-y. In that block are the fields for the addresses. Love Rails.

Load up the page, and see the majestic beauty of what you and Rails have written together. What?! Nothing is there.

## Creating stubs

We're asking Rails to generate `fields_for` each of the `Person`'s addresses.
However, when we first create a `Person`, they have no addresses. Just like
`f.text_field :name` will have nothing in the text field if there is no name,
`f.fields_for :addresses` will have no address fields if there are no addresses.

We'll take the most straightforward way out: when we create a `Person` in the
`PeopleController`, we'll add two empty addresses to fill out. The final
controller looks like this:

```ruby
class PeopleController < ApplicationController
  def new
    @person = Person.new
    @person.addresses.build(address_type: 'work')
    @person.addresses.build(address_type: 'home')
  end

  def create
    person = Person.create(person_params)
    redirect_to people_path
  end

  def index
    @people = Person.all
  end

  private

  def person_params
    params.require(:person).permit(:name)
  end
end
```

Now, refresh the page, and you'll see two lovely address forms. Try to hit
submit, and it isn't going to work. One last hurdle. We have new `params` keys,
which means we need to modify our `person_params` method to accept them. Your
`person_params` method should now look like this:

```ruby
def person_params
  params.require(:person).permit(
    :name,
    addresses_attributes: [
      :street_address_1,
      :street_address_2,
      :city,
      :state,
      :zipcode,
      :address_type
    ]
  )
end
```

## Avoiding duplicates

One situation we can't use `accepts_nested_attributes_for` is when we want to
avoid duplicates of the row we're creating.

In our address book app, perhaps it's reasonable to have duplicate address rows.
For instance, both Jerry and Tim live on 22 Elm Street, so there are two address
rows for 22 Elm Street. That's fine for those purposes.

But say we have a database of songs and artists. We would want `Artist` rows to
be unique, so that `Artist.find_by(name: 'Tori Amos').songs` returns what we'd
expect. If we want to be able to create artists _while_ creating songs, we'll
need to use `find_or_create_by` in our `artist_attributes=` method:

```ruby
# app/models/song.rb

class Song < ActiveRecord::Base
  def artist_attributes=(artist)
    self.artist = Artist.find_or_create_by(name: artist[:name])
    self.artist.update(artist)
  end
end
```

This looks up existing artists by name. If no matching artist is found, one is
created. Then we update the artist's attributes with the ones we were given. We
could also choose to do something else if we didn't want to allow bulk assigning
of an artist's information through a song.

Note that `accepts_nested_attributes_for` and setter methods (e.g.,
`artist_attributes=`) aren't necessarily mutually exclusive. It's important to
evaluate the needs of your specific use case and choose the approach that makes
the most sense. Keep in mind, too, that setter methods are useful for more than
just avoiding duplicates –– that's just one domain where they come in handy.

## Video Review

- [Nested Forms](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zZn0xWry6TE)

<p class='util--hide'>View <a href='https://learn.co/lessons/basic-nested-forms'>Basic Nested Forms</a> on Learn.co and start learning to code for free.</p>

Commit message:

Added summary to README
This is my git commit description.
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet. Consectetuer adipiscing elit.

README.md, after:

# Basic Nested Forms

## Summary

This lab discusses basic nested forms. The rest of the summary. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet.

## Objectives

1.  Construct a nested `params` hash with data about the primary object and a
    `belongs_to` and `has_many` association.
2.  Use the conventional key names for associated data (association_attributes).
3.  Name form inputs correctly to create a nested `params` hash with `belongs_to`
    and `has_many` associated data.
4.  Define a conventional association writer for the primary model to properly
    instantiate associations based on the nested `params` association data.
5.  Define a custom association writer for the primary model to properly instantiate
    associations with custom logic (like unique by name) on the nested `params`
    association data.
6.  Use `fields_for` to generate the association fields.

## Data model

Let's say we're writing an address book.

Each `Person` can have multiple addresses. Each `Address` has a bunch of address
info fields.

Our data model looks like this:

- `Person`
  - has many `addresses`
  - has a `name` (string)
- `Address`
  - has one `person`
  - has the first line of the street address stored as `street_address_1` (string)
  - has the second line of the street address stored as `street_address_2` (string)
  - has a `city` (string)
  - has a `state` (string)
  - has a `zipcode` (string)
  - has an `address_type` (string)

## Creating people

How do we write our `Person` form? We don't want to require our user to first
create an `Address`, then create that `Person`. That's annoying. We want a
single form for a `Person` containing several slots for their `addresses`.

Previously, we wrote setters like `Song#artist_name=` to find or create an
`Artist` and connect them to the song.

That won't work here, because an address contains more than one field. In the
`Artist` case we were just doing the `name`. With `Address`, it's "structured
data". All that really means is it has multiple fields attached to it. When we
build a form for it, the form will send a different key for each field in each
address. This can get a bit unwieldy so we generally try to group a hash within
the `params` hash, which makes things much neater. Spoiler alert: Rails has a
way to send this across as a hash.

The complete `params` object for creating a `Person` will look like the
following. Using "0" and "1" as keys can seem a bit odd, but it makes everything
else work moving forward. This hash is now more versatile. You can access nested
values the standard way, with `params[:person][:addresses_attributes]["0"]`
returning all of the information about the first address at 33 West 26th St.

```ruby
{
  :person => {
    :name => "Avi",
    :addresses_attributes => {
      "0" => {
        :street_address_1 => "33 West 26th St",
        :street_address_2 => "Apt 2B",
        :city => "New York",
        :state => "NY",
        :zipcode => "10010",
        :address_type => "Work"
      },
      "1" => {
        :street_address_1 => "11 Broadway",
        :street_address_2 => "2nd Floor",
        :city => "New York",
        :state => "NY",
        :zipcode => "10004",
        :address_type => "Home"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Notice the `addresses_attributes` key. That key is similar to the `artist_name`
key we used previously. Last time, we handled this by writing a `artist_name=`
method. In this case, we're going to do something _super_ similar. Instead of
writing our own `addresses_attributes=` method, we'll let Rails take care of it
for us. We're going to use `accepts_nested_attributes_for` and the `fields_for`
FormHelper.

Last time, we first wrote our setter method in the model. This time let's modify
our `Person` model to include an `accepts_nested_attributes_for :addresses`
line.

```ruby
class Person < ActiveRecord::Base
  has_many :addresses
  accepts_nested_attributes_for :addresses

end
```

Now open up `rails c` and run our `addresses_attributes` method that was created for us by `accepts_nested_attributes_for`.

```shell
2.2.3 :018 > new_person = Person.new
 => #<Person id: nil, name: nil, created_at: nil, updated_at: nil>

2.2.3 :019 > new_person.addresses_attributes={"0"=>{"street_address_1"=>"33 West 26", "street_address_2"=>"Floor 2", "city"=>"NYC", "state"=>"NY", "zipcode"=>"10004", "address_type"=>"work1"}, "1"=>{"street_address_1"=>"11 Broadway", "street_address_2"=>"Suite 260", "city"=>"NYC", "state"=>"NY", "zipcode"=>"10004", "address_type"=>"work2"}}
 => {"0"=>{"street_address_1"=>"33 West 26", "street_address_2"=>"Floor 2", "city"=>"NYC", "state"=>"NY", "zipcode"=>"10004", "address_type"=>"work1"}, "1"=>{"street_address_1"=>"11 Broadway", "street_address_2"=>"Suite 260", "city"=>"NYC", "state"=>"NY", "zipcode"=>"10004", "address_type"=>"work2"}}

2.2.3 :020 > new_person.save
   (0.2ms)  begin transaction
  SQL (0.8ms)  INSERT INTO "people" ("created_at", "updated_at") VALUES (?, ?)  [["created_at", "2016-01-14 11:57:00.393038"], ["updated_at", "2016-01-14 11:57:00.393038"]]
  SQL (0.3ms)  INSERT INTO "addresses" ("street_address_1", "street_address_2", "city", "state", "zipcode", "address_type", "person_id", "created_at", "updated_at") VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?)  [["street_address_1", "33 West 26"], ["street_address_2", "Floor 2"], ["city", "NYC"], ["state", "NY"], ["zipcode", "10004"], ["address_type", "work1"], ["person_id", 3], ["created_at", "2016-01-14 11:57:00.403152"], ["updated_at", "2016-01-14 11:57:00.403152"]]
  SQL (0.1ms)  INSERT INTO "addresses" ("street_address_1", "street_address_2", "city", "state", "zipcode", "address_type", "person_id", "created_at", "updated_at") VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?)  [["street_address_1", "11 Broadway"], ["street_address_2", "Suite 260"], ["city", "NYC"], ["state", "NY"], ["zipcode", "10004"], ["address_type", "work2"], ["person_id", 3], ["created_at", "2016-01-14 11:57:00.405973"], ["updated_at", "2016-01-14 11:57:00.405973"]]
   (0.6ms)  commit transaction
 => true
```

This is a bit hard to read, but you'll notice that we have a method called
`addresses_attributes=`. You didn't write that; `accepts_nested_attributes_for`
wrote that. Then when we called `new_person.save` it created both the `Person`
object and the two `Address` objects. Boom!

Now, we just need to get our form to create a `params` hash like that. Easy
Peasy. We are going to use `fields_for` to make this happen.

```erb
# app/views/people/new.html.erb

<%= form_for @person do |f| %>
  <%= f.label :name %>
  <%= f.text_field :name %><br>

  <%= f.fields_for :addresses do |addr| %>
    <%= addr.label :street_address_1 %>
    <%= addr.text_field :street_address_1 %><br>

    <%= addr.label :street_address_2 %>
    <%= addr.text_field :street_address_2 %><br>

    <%= addr.label :city %>
    <%= addr.text_field :city %><br>

    <%= addr.label :state %>
    <%= addr.text_field :state %><br>

    <%= addr.label :zipcode %>
    <%= addr.text_field :zipcode %><br>

    <%= addr.label :address_type %>
    <%= addr.text_field :address_type %><br>
  <% end %>

  <%= f.submit %>
<% end %>
```

The `fields_for` line gives something nice and English-y. In that block are the fields for the addresses. Love Rails.

Load up the page, and see the majestic beauty of what you and Rails have written together. What?! Nothing is there.

## Creating stubs

We're asking Rails to generate `fields_for` each of the `Person`'s addresses.
However, when we first create a `Person`, they have no addresses. Just like
`f.text_field :name` will have nothing in the text field if there is no name,
`f.fields_for :addresses` will have no address fields if there are no addresses.

We'll take the most straightforward way out: when we create a `Person` in the
`PeopleController`, we'll add two empty addresses to fill out. The final
controller looks like this:

```ruby
class PeopleController < ApplicationController
  def new
    @person = Person.new
    @person.addresses.build(address_type: 'work')
    @person.addresses.build(address_type: 'home')
  end

  def create
    person = Person.create(person_params)
    redirect_to people_path
  end

  def index
    @people = Person.all
  end

  private

  def person_params
    params.require(:person).permit(:name)
  end
end
```

Now, refresh the page, and you'll see two lovely address forms. Try to hit
submit, and it isn't going to work. One last hurdle. We have new `params` keys,
which means we need to modify our `person_params` method to accept them. Your
`person_params` method should now look like this:

```ruby
def person_params
  params.require(:person).permit(
    :name,
    addresses_attributes: [
      :street_address_1,
      :street_address_2,
      :city,
      :state,
      :zipcode,
      :address_type
    ]
  )
end
```

## Avoiding duplicates

One situation we can't use `accepts_nested_attributes_for` is when we want to
avoid duplicates of the row we're creating.

In our address book app, perhaps it's reasonable to have duplicate address rows.
For instance, both Jerry and Tim live on 22 Elm Street, so there are two address
rows for 22 Elm Street. That's fine for those purposes.

But say we have a database of songs and artists. We would want `Artist` rows to
be unique, so that `Artist.find_by(name: 'Tori Amos').songs` returns what we'd
expect. If we want to be able to create artists _while_ creating songs, we'll
need to use `find_or_create_by` in our `artist_attributes=` method:

```ruby
# app/models/song.rb

class Song < ActiveRecord::Base
  def artist_attributes=(artist)
    self.artist = Artist.find_or_create_by(name: artist[:name])
    self.artist.update(artist)
  end
end
```

This looks up existing artists by name. If no matching artist is found, one is
created. Then we update the artist's attributes with the ones we were given. We
could also choose to do something else if we didn't want to allow bulk assigning
of an artist's information through a song.

Note that `accepts_nested_attributes_for` and setter methods (e.g.,
`artist_attributes=`) aren't necessarily mutually exclusive. It's important to
evaluate the needs of your specific use case and choose the approach that makes
the most sense. Keep in mind, too, that setter methods are useful for more than
just avoiding duplicates –– that's just one domain where they come in handy.

## Video Review

- [Nested Forms](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zZn0xWry6TE)

<p class='util--hide'>View <a href='https://learn.co/lessons/basic-nested-forms'>Basic Nested Forms</a> on Learn.co and start learning to code for free.</p>
